So, I'd prefer to do a few crazy eight,
get people thinking,
get people feeling a little bit engaged,
and
then typically I'll move on
to low-fidelity prototyping,
which is me then iterating on what
I did in the crazy eight session.
I don't always use crazy eight,
there are other ways of doing it but
that's one of them that I quite like.
So with the low fidelity prototyping,
yeah, you can use paper prototyping.
Like I said, I think it's best
suited to workshop exercises.
When you're trying to create
a large number of ideas quickly.
It has got big bonuses to it, I am maybe a
little bit sneery about paper prototyping,
for a start I can't say, but
actually it's pretty good in other ways.
For a start it's a low barrier, anybody
could do a pen and Paper prototype, right?
No special skills are required
which is brilliant.
It means that everybody in the room,
can feel engaged with it,
also everybody can participate.
The problem, sometimes the problem is,
like, say if you use,
I know Figma above surname,
one of these prototyping tools, right?
There's somebody sitting
in front of a laptop and
ultimately they're in control, right?
It's not an inclusive exercise,
while paper prototyping is very inclusive.
It's obviously fast to create,
sketching out only takes a few seconds and
it's disposable because it's so
easy to create, people are not attached to
their sketch, which can be a problem
with more high fidelity prototyping.
And of course it's cost effective, right,
cuz there's no special equipment required.
So, there's, it's got its place but for
me it's a bit earlier it's
in that workshop exercise.
Once I come out of the workshop,
I tend to move to Greyscale prototyping.
So this is where you can see what
they look like on the screen,
they're basically, we don't worry
too much about the design but
we're more worried about the structure and
the organization of the information.
Why I like greyscale prototyping is
it's still pretty fast to create,
especially if you've got the right
tools and the right set up.
So, there are various tools that
we'll come on to think in a minute.
They can be, to be honest they can
almost be as quick as paper prototyping,
especially when you wanna make changes
they're actually quicker, right?
Cuz you're not rubbing stuff out,
you're just dragging boxes around and
things like that which is quite quick.
Focuses on the functionality don't
get caught up in aesthetics which can
be a minefield, if you don't have already
established kind of brand guidelines.
And they're ideal for
testing cuz they're realistic enough for
people to understand them and
interact with them.
And there's some great
prototyping tools out there.
So, we've got basically two
options that are tools that
are dedicated to doing this
kinda greyscale prototyping, so
balsamic is probably one of
the most well known ones.
Really low barrier of entry, which
means that you can get lots of people
involved in prototyping,
very intuitive to use.
But tend to be maybe a little
bit low lower far greyscale.
Alternatively, there are loads
of kind of Figma templates
that you can download that
let you do greyscale.
But another tool that I'm quite a fan of,
there's kinda middle ground between
faffing around in Figma which is a lot
of work about summit which feels
a little bit lightweight sometimes,
is a toggle whimsical,
which probably never heard of,
I only stumbled across it by accident.
And whimsical lets you do both
user flows and sitemaps and
then full wireframes but
it's very Dragon Droppy and
I find it quite easy to churn out
greyscale wireframes via that.
Yeah, so, it's pretty good, it's worth to
play with and see what you think yourself